Introduction and Naming your Character
Sit and watch the introduction sequence that will explain the game's background. Basically, long ago, humans and monsters engaged in a war in which the monsters were defeated. The humans sealed the monsters underground at Mt Ebott. One day, someone who appears to be your character stumbles into the Underground.
When you start a new game, you will be asked to name the fallen human. You have a maximum of 6 characters for a name. Note that certain names will trigger a response from the game, particularly names borrowed from in-game characters. I will not detail these responses here, as they would spoil parts of the game, but be mindful and pick an original name. My only bit of advice is to not select Frisk as your name. Seriously, don't do that. For information on special names, see the Secrets section at the end of this guide.

The Ruins
The game will begin with you as a small human child atop of a bed of golden flowers. Feel free to move around and get a look at your cute little self. When ready, head right and into the next room.First Encounter with Flowey
The next room is dark, mostly black, but ahead you will find a small patch of grass under sunlight. A small flower is there to greet you. This is Flowey, and he offers to give you an introduction to the Underground. He will initiate your first encounter to explain how they work. I suggest listening to him and following his instructions for a valuable lesson. When you touch his "friendliness pellets," you will be knocked down to 1HP, and Flowey will mock you for falling for his trap. If you avoid the pellets, he will grow irritated and eventually note that you "know what's going on." Regardless, he will attempt to kill you, but don't worry, the watchful Toriel will save you. The friendly, motherly goat Toriel knocks Flowey away and offers to guide you through the ruins.
Follow Toriel north through the large door, leading to the Ruins' entrance. This room has the game's first save point in front of the stairs which you should use for your first boost of determination. Head through the north door with Toriel.
In the next room, Toriel will welcome you to your new home, and then apparently teach you how to use the ruins because they are full of puzzles. She steps on some switches to open the next door, setting an example for you. Indeed, Undertale is full of puzzles, so be ready for them. There's nothing more to do in this room except read the sign on the left which has the solution to the puzzle Toriel solves for you.
When you follow Toriel north, she will give you another lesson on puzzles in the Underground. She heads across the room. The sign in front of you just says "Press Z to read signs!". The sign on the wall tells you to stay on the path. More incredible advice! Head across the bridge and use the rather clearly marked switch on the wall. Follow her again, and once again press the obviously marked switch. Toriel is just trying to help you learn puzzles! If you talk to her, she will even tell you to press the left switch. If you try the right switch, Toriel will just tell you to use the other one. If you pester Toriel further, she'll ask whether you know which way is left. When you finally push the switch, head into the next room with her.
The next room contains a small dummy which Toriel will have you practice with. She insists you need to be prepared for encountering monsters, and the dummy is your test subject. Toriel advises you to strike a friendly conversation. Talk to Toriel again for some ideas for conversation topics! Examine the dummy to enter an encounter. You can do anything you want to the dummy, though attacking it will cause Toriel to scold you. Practice sparing it by talking to it. It's not much for conversation, but Toriel will be happy with you. You can also flee the battle, and Toriel will find you kind of weird, but it also works.
Head up to the next room, where Toriel has another puzzle for you. Follow her right, where you'll encounter a Froggit. Simply use any Act option, and Toriel will give the Froggit a glare to stop the fight. Heading further ahead, the sign tells you how to solve the puzzle, but just follow Toriel. She will take your hand and lead you across the spikes for your own safety. How sweet!
Next, Toriel will challenge you with your toughest task yet. Walk to the end of the room on your own! How dreadful! It is quite a long room, but when you get to the end Toriel will reassure you that she is just testing your independence. She will then leave you on your own from here on, but will also give you a cell phone to call her with. She tells you to stay where you are, but feel free to just head into the next room. If you choose to wait, you will get a call from her after 5 minutes in which she will ask you to wait longer. If you have the patience, you'll be rewarded with a pretty amusing sequence of her losing her phone to a dog. Note that you can also call Toriel at anytime in the ruins for some interesting dialogue, particularly if you flirt with her.
Toriel will immediately call you in the next room to warn you to stay where you are because of more puzzles ahead, but we'll defy her this time. Feel free to talk to the Froggit and use the Save Point. You'll probably encounter your first, actual battle in this room, namely a single Froggit. See the end of this guide for more detailed information on monster encounters, or check the insets here for brief advice. Head north to get some candy from the pedestal, your first items. You can take up to four pieces before the candy falls onto the floor. When ready, head through the bottom right exit.
The following room has a single rock and a switch. Obviously, you have to push the rock onto the switch. Toriel will call you here to ask on your preferences between cinnamon and butterscotch pie. She'll immediately call again to ask if you don't dislike the ingredient you didn't choose. Head over the downed spikes and into the next room.
This next room has what looks like cracked ground ahead. You'll fall down when you step on one, but you can just head through the right door on the bottom to get back up. This room is just introducing you to breaking floors.
The following room has a single rock and a switch. Obviously, you have to push the rock onto the switch. Toriel will call you here to ask on your preferences between cinnamon and butterscotch pie. She'll immediately call again to ask if you don't dislike the ingredient you didn't choose. Head over the downed spikes and into the next room.
Next, you'll find the floor covered in broken tiles, but you can actually walk on some of them. If you fall down, the pathway through the leaves below is the same pathway that will lead you across the tiles. Head through the left door to get back up. See the picture here for an easy reference to the path. Head across the upper room and to the right.
Ahead, you'll find a room with three stones, again implying you should push them onto the switches. When you try to push the third rock, it will object, and you'll have to keep talking to it until it stays on the switch for you. Not all rocks like to be pushed, it seems!
When you cross the spikes into the next room, you'll find another save point plus some cheese to help fill you with determination. Save and proceed.
Heading right, you'll see a ghost lying on a bed of leaves, blocking your way. Hopefully you got some items, like the candy, so you're ready for a fight! Talk to the ghost and move it with force. Saying "No" just does nothing.

Mini-Boss: Napstablook
ATK 10 DEF 10 This monster doesn't seem to have a sense of humor.
Napstablook is a ghost that loves comedy, despite his check message, and just getting some attention. Threatening him won't do you any good, and flirting won't help, so try cheering instead. In terms of attacks, he'll rain tears down on you from above, meaning you should stay low in the box. He also rains down wiggly tears that will spiral around the box. These are pretty tough to avoid, and I suggest just finding a spot near the middle to move back and forth. After you cheer for him 3 times, he'll put on a tophat, as seen above. Cheer for him 4 times total to spare him.

After sparing Napstablook, he'll get out of your way. Proceed to the right room first, but feel free to go back and heal at the save point too. The right room contains the Spider Bakesale. If you have at least 7G, I HIGHLY recommend you buy a spider donut from the left spider web. Either a donut or cider will be extremely useful later on in the game. Do not use the donut EVER until told to!
Head north of the Napstablook room to find another long corridor. There are 2 Froggits here with some game advice. The second one will let you change the spare color from yellow to pink or have no spare color. Say the yellow names are bad and to get rid of them, then talk again and ask to bring them back for pink names. There's also a third Froggit, a tiny one against the far wall. See if you can find it! Toriel will call you at the end of the room to say she's left items around you can pick up, but don't pick up too many, since you can only carry 10 items.
In the next room, you'll see some broken tiles that you can fall through. The exit is blocked by spikes, but if you head down the upper middle hole you'll find the switch to bring down the spikes. Some holes have monsters, and one has Napstablook lying around. The bottom left hole has a Faded Ribbon, some armor that you should equip. This is your first armor that will replace your default Bandages. You can now use the bandages as a healing item.
The next room contains some pillars and switches that look like colored mushrooms. The sign says the next room changes perspectives, meaning it will rotate for a different vantage point. Ignore the switches in this room for now and head down to the next room which is indeed a rotation. You have to hit the right switch or be sent down a hole, forcing you to start over. This room's sign tells you to hit the Blue switch, which is behind the top pillar. This will put down the spikes and let you head left. Next, hit the Red switch, which you can see pretty clearly. Finally, hit the Green switch, located behind the left, middle pillar, and proceed right.
At last, you've reached the end of the Ruins. First, head right passed the leaves and vines to find a single Froggit that will tell you about Toriel's grocery shopping. Head north to find a dagger lying on the ground on an overlook of the Ruins. This is a Toy Knife that you can use as a weapon if you wish, or you can try selling it later on if you're not fighting. Head back to the fork in the road with the leaves and go north.
You'll see a large tree in front of you, and then Toriel will show up, worried about what happened to you. She'll invite you into her big home just ahead. Use the save point and head inside.

Toriel's Home
Toriel will meet you inside to tell you she's baked some cinnamon-butterscotch pie for you. She says expects you to live with her and then heads to the right. You can follow her to the room she's set up for you, but feel free to explore her home. She'll bring you back if you head downstairs, though. Toriel will lead you to your room, which you can again explore with lots of flavor text scattered on the furniture. You can also head to her room down the hall for more stuff to examine. She seems to have quite an elaborate, well kept home, and it's odd that she has a room prepared for you already. You can also go back and talk to her in her living room and proceed with the story, but I suggest taking a nap first. When you're ready, sleep in your bed.
When you wake up, there will be a slice of cinnamon-butterscotch pie on the floor for you to take. Hold onto this item and try to NOT use it until told to do so. Head out of your room and to the living room to speak with Toriel. She'll tell you about her desire to take care of you and teach you, then offer to read some of the book she has. You can listen if you want, but eventually ask to exit the ruins and go home. She will say she has to do something and leave. Now, I suggest saving outside, then heading downstairs.
Walk along the basement corridor until you meet Toriel. She will say she plans to destroy the exit to the Ruins so no one can escape again. Follow her and she will warn you that all humans that leave simply die at the hands of Asgore. Who is that? Continue to follow her until you get to the door. She will block the door, then challenge you to prove your strength. This is the first serious boss battle of the game.

Boss: Toriel
Check: ATK 80 DEF 80 Knows best for you.
Note: You can flee the battle at any time if you want to heal or don't feel prepared.
Toriel will not let you leave the ruins until you prove your strength to her. This goat monster means business at the start of the fight, using rather quick and strong fire magic. Her fire will swirl around the box, swaying back and forth, meaning you should glide along with it in rhythm. Don't stray too far from the middle. It will also twirl in a double helix, so you should find a spot between the loops to sit and wait. The fire will accumulate on the bottom, so stay near the middle again. Occasionally, she will sweep a hand across the box and shoot fire at you. Move to one corner of the box, then move to the other side to trick the magic to miss you. Be careful, as it will bounce off the walls. She will also sweep two hands at once. Pin yourself to the sides of the boxes instead to have time to dodge the attacks.
Talking to Toriel won't help. All you can do here is to try sparing her right away to show you're not willing to fight, even though her name isn't yellow. Simply continue to use Spare until Toriel stops trying to hit you. Eventually, she will stop attacking completely and let you go. She will try to convince you to stay, but to no avail. You can also attack her and weaken her to the point that she will spare you.
Note that you can't really lose this battle unless you intentionally kill yourself. Toriel's fire will avoid you if your HP gets low. She has no intention of killing you. If she does kill you, she will look startled just before you get a Game Over.

After the battle, Toriel will let you go through the door, but she warns you to not come back. She will give you a heartwarming hug, then leave you. If there's anything more you wish to do in the ruins, do them now. Toriel is honest in saying you will not be able to return. If you head back to the house, you will not find Toriel anywhere. If you sleep in your bed again, you will get a mysterious message saying you're the best hope of humans and monsters.
When you're ready, go through the door. Walk along the long corridor into the next room where you'll be face to face with Flowey again. He will mock you for being so peaceful and sparing everyone (if that's what you've done). He'll also comment if you killed Toriel, or if you killed her accidentally, then reloaded to spare her. He'll say the world is his to take over, obviously having a sinister plan in mind. Go through the big door to enter the next area of the game.

Snowdin
On the other side of the door, you'll find yourself in a spooky, dark, and snowy forest. Not a good first sign! If you examine the bushes, you'll discover a camera hidden in them. Something fishy is already going on. Head down the trail ahead.
